In October 2023, the Biden Administration issued an Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence.
This Executive Order is a tremendous step in providing the accountability and protections we need,
while pushing toward innovation that could dramatically improve the quality of services that the government can deliver.
Using the framework set by the Executive Order
the Office of Management and Budget developed draft policy guidance to drive innovative uses of AI at Federal agencies,
while ensuring this work is done responsibly.
OMB’s draft guidance outlines three pillars to advance the responsible use of AI in government:
Strengthening AI governance, through the designation of Chief AI Officers that hold primary responsibility for managing risks from their agency’s use of AI;
Advancing responsible AI innovation, through the removal of barriers to the responsible use of AI and the development of agency AI strategies
; and Managing risks from the use of AI, through the adoption of minimum AI risk management practices for uses of AI that impact rights and safety.
With this draft guidance, the government is demonstrating that it can lead in AI and ensure that the technology benefits all.